Jeremy boen reports on the significance
of tonight's hostage
releases Natalie ranan and her mother
Judith flanked by Israeli soldiers
emerged into Israel after negotiations
led by Kat they' come from Chicago to
visit family in Israel when they were
taken by Hamas their release said the
International Red Cross was a sliver of
Hope yes when President Biden was here
earlier this week the release of the
hostage
was one of his
priorities Anthony blinken the US
Secretary of State went to Kata which
also hosts a Hamas office Kat's
connections were crucial good afternoon
everyone uh about an hour ago uh two
American citizens held by Hamas since
October 7th uh were
released uh these two Americans are now
safely in the hands of Israeli
authorities in Israel the Urgent work to
free every single American to free all
other hostages continues as does our
work to secure the safe passage out of
Gaza for the Americans who are trapped
there in Tel Aviv while the negotiations
were happening families and friends of
the more than 200 people taken as
hostages by herass were holding a
vigil 20 of the missing Israel says are
under
18 the people here will be hoping that
now the principle of doing deals is
established more might be
possible the photos are going up on the
wall of the defense
Ministry the presence of hostages in
Gaza puts pressure on Israel's generals
and politicians as Hamas must have
intended in a small country the hostage
crisis draws in many
families daily life here is on hold the
war dominates everything Israelis are
united behind their flag and their army
and in their contempt and hatred for
Hamas they are not United about their
prime minister benjam Netanyahu a highly
divisive figure whose opponents believe
neglected their
security the vigil is a powerful
event but it started when one man avai
broet in the black T-shirt came here on
his own
his wife and three small children were
taken from a bordic kots by Hamas if
you're sitting on your couch now look
down at your son playing right next to
you you know you know what's right you
know we we're that he's in the right
place you know my kids have done nothing
wrong my you know we yal and which are 4
and a half 8 and 10 just celebrated her
birthday she still got cake in the
fridge so you know we all know what the
right thing is to do where they should
be where my wife should be
so you know it's pretty easy pretty easy
choice to make just you know bring them
home to
me Israelis and plenty of others
including President Joe Biden say this
is their equivalent of the attacks on
America by Al-Qaeda on September the
11th 2001 and for Israelis this is
not a trauma you can get used
to every day they're learning more about
these people about the missing about the
dead and that sadness and anger
underpins the resolve of the government
to hit back to get their people bring
them home and to destroy
Hamas pain is universal after an Israeli
raid in Karam on the West Bank five
children were among 13 Palestinian dead
an Israeli soldier was killed as well at
the Mory Palestinian family said goodbye
to the boys aged from 11 to 15
bystanders who were killed by a drone
strike Palestinians on the West Bank
held protests after the noon
prayer the uneasy unpleasant but mostly
predictable Rhythm of the conflict has
gone the only certain to ah head is more
pain and Jeremy is here with me um
fantastic news for the families of these
two hostages but one wanders in a wider
context how significant it is that they
have been released well the
International Red Cross who were part of
the process called it a sliver of Hope a
sliver because there more than 200
people there um I think there is a
principle established now that Hamas
will do a deal and so I think those
hostage families I was speaking to today
in Tel Aviv will will be delighted to
hear that and they'll be thinking well
maybe we might be next one question why
choose Americans first well the
Americans have been pushing but also I
think President Biden has been trying to
be a bit of a moderating influence on
the level of force the Israelis use
perhaps Hamas think that that's
significant too and maybe he might do
more of that and there's another thing
and that is that the whole purpose of
taking hostages for Hamas was to have
lever over the Israelis a few years ago
the Israelis exchanged more than a
thousand Palestinian prisoners for one
hostage they've exchanged they've
exchanged as well other prisoners for
bodies so they must think well if we got
that many for one what could we do with
200 indeed okay Jeremy thank you Jeremy
Bowen there well we're going to get more
from our North America editor now Sarah
Smith who's live in Washington Sarah the
two hostages released they our American
citizens as we've been hearing and
tonight we're wondering what the White
House has been saying about all
this well President Biden has put out a
statement saying he is Overjoyed at the
release of these two Americans and he
has in fact spoken directly to their
family here in the United States as well
and he has mentioned working around the
clock to try and secure the release of
all the American hostages there has
clearly been a lot of activity and this
bit of good news does come at the end of
a week of extraordinary diplomatic focus
on the Middle East from America we had
that dramatic trip to Israel from
President Biden on Wednesday and an
unusual live televised address from the
White House last night and I think it is
really important and interesting to note
as Jeremy was alluding to there that
every time we hear from President Biden
and he talks about Israel's right to
defend itself he also always mentions
the need to respect the laws of war and
do everything possible to try to avoid
civilian deaths and casualties when
Israel comes to respond so while the
president is obviously wanting to show
his solidarity with the state of Israel
he appears at the same time to be trying
to contain their reaction and in doing
so try to stop this conflict from
spreading Beyond where it is already at
and that is pretty clearly just as much
of a priority for America as condemning
hamas's attacks and working to secure
the release of all the other hostages
that are still in Gaza